---
layout: post
---

Over the past few weeks I've been dipping my toes into a few different languages in an effort to broaden my knowledge. The first of these experiments was with Haskell, I picked this because 1: RC has a lot of experts and enthusiasts in the language, so I couldn't get too stuck if I ran into trouble and 2: it seemed like the language which would most require me to shift my way of thinking.

I first started by going though the book "Learn you a Haskell for great good" which had come to me recommended, but I didn't find it especially useful. The lack of exercises really made it hard to digest the material, and after going though the first six chapters and inventing my own exercises I decided to jump right into a project. Perhaps I'll come back to the book when I've had a bit more experience with the syntax.

The project I chose was a sudoku solver, since the only technique for this that I knew was heavily reliant on mutable state and I figured it would help me learn how the functional approach differed. So far however... I just have a slow, memory hungry Sudoku solver...

I'll write more about the solver some other time, but it did serve the purpose of teaching me a lot about Haskell and functional programming. As did pairing with Sean Martin, who helped me implement the back tracking algorithm. 

So far I've been enjoying Haskell, it makes me feel like I felt when I was first learning to program, forcing my brain to think in a whole new way. I like the compiler warnings that help me catch most of my bugs before I even run it, I like that I rarely have to worry about accidentally breaking one part of my code when I'm editing a completely different part, and I suspect that I'm writing far *less* code than I would if I was doing this in another language.

The only thing that's bothered me about the language so far is that it sometimes seems to be a bit too focused on purity, even at the expense of useful tools. For example the lack of a real random function gave us trouble when we wanted to try moves in a random order. But it's a minor gripe over all, and perhaps it will make sense in time.
