So the second week has come to a close, and it's been dominated by two projects: writing a bittorrent client and writing a server. This two projects however have both been dominated by the same thing: Reading documentation! That doesn't mean however they haven't been interesting. Bittorrent has especially been a challenge as I've never worked to implement something from a spec before, nor have I really worked like this in a group.

It's been a bit of hassle, mostly revolving around not knowing exactly what our inputs and out puts should look like, and not understanding why connections are failing. For example, our first attempts to connect to the tracker all failed, but we had no way if knowing if this was our request being formatted incorrectly, or some other issue. We just saw 404s. Right now I'm having the same problem connecting to peers, I think I'm following the spec exactly but no response. Am I misunderstanding something or am I just getting bad luck with unresponsive peers? Still, working though it with people has been a lot more educational than doing it alone would have been. Talking though the problems leads to faster solutions, and talking though the spec leads to interesting perspectives on it that wouldn't have occurred to me. I'm eager to get though our current road block with the peers, as the whole project should open up after that.

On the other hand the server has been an entirely solo project and I'm really feeling the contrast. It's easy enough to understand what my program is doing, and I could muster a pretty good explanation of why it works, but it feels like I'm only grasping it on a very shallow level. I think it come down to the fact that when I'm working it all out in my head I'm just not as inquisitive or perceptive as I would be when working with another person. I'm going to write a blog post on it and hopefully that will help cement my understanding, as it has in the past.
        
It's a reminder though that I need to spend more time pairing on things, and talking things though with people. I'm not going to stop learning about programming any time soon but I only have 10 weeks left with this amazing community, in order to get the most out of it I should prioritize things I can do with people or talk about with people. I have the rest of my life to bash away at things in solitude!

On that note I have two new things to work on this week, in addition to bittorrent: Firstly I'm going to be working on writing a [python interpreter in 500 lines](http://aosabook.org//en/500L/a-python-interpreter-written-in-python.html), and secondly I'm going to be working on learning Go.

And on a side note, I really need to make the time to explore New York. I've been here two weeks and I've not been anywhere other than my apartment, RC, and a few shops.